[Music]
Hey how's it going Dave to be here so
this is a video on five free Mac apps
that I think everyone should be using if
you have an Apple computer so if you
have an iMac a Mac Pro or any of the Mac
books you should be using these apps
because they're good they're useful and
they're free in addition to the five
free ones I'll be talking about some
paid ones
none of these are sponsored or anything
these are just apps that I've used that
I like hence the creation of this video
so the first one is an app called onyx
so onyx is an excellent Mac cleaning
tool it's powerful it's free and it gets
updated frequently you can clean your
Mac using some basic stuff like erasing
caches and cookies but can also do some
more aggressive cleanup like removing
languages that you don't use it can go
pretty deep
now onyx can be a little bit risky like
if you go ham and start erasing
everything you can mess stuff up so if
you want something a little bit more
restrained there's an app called
CleanMyMac it's also good but it costs
$40
I prefer onyx tips because it does
everything you would need and it's free
the second app is app cleaner see when
you erase apps on Macs they already do
look a decent job just by deleting the
dmg file but there's often residual
files and this application gets rid of
them one thing to keep in mind you do
need to have AB cleaner installed in
advance so if you already deleted a
bunch of apps from your Mac it won't be
able to find those older residual files
you need to use something like onyx to
clean that stuff out next is flux or a
flux I'm not really sure how to
pronounce it it's an application that
controls the color temperature of your
screen based on the time of day and it
does this in a really gradual manner so
during the day your screen will normal
but as the sun goes down it'll slowly
remove the cooler hues from the screen
to make it easier on your eyes I know it
sounds gimmicky but try it for a while
and I think you'll like it this thing
was not good for is color accurate work
so obviously things will look more
orangie and warmer with flux running at
night but aside from that once you get
used to the color temperature changes it
makes your computer experience better it
helps you work for longer because
there's less eye strain and for me
anything for a lot of people it'll help
you sleep better after you've shut it
down
next is the unarchive er which i think
is the best unzipping or on an archiving
app you maybe don't frequently use
compression programs instead of a thing
because eventually you'll download
something or someone will send you
something that needs decompression and
this will handle it it does all of the
major compression formats and it
extracts them properly it's lightweight
and it's free last up is copy clip and
this is an app that stores all the stuff
that you copy using command C so imagine
you copy one selection of text and then
moments later you copy some numbers or
something
normally you lose that first selection
of text copy clip stores them all into a
list so if you're typing a theater
school or to do stuff for work or just
doing anything having a functional
history of text that you've copied with
command C is awesome and once you use
this for a while it's hard to go back to
not having that kind of functionality so
these five apps so far our Fried's are
good they're awesome but I also want to
talk about some paid apps and again not
sponsored this is just like stuff that I
like okay the first one is duplicates
finder and this as the name would
suggest find duplicate files so if you
have a giant archive of photos or videos
or music this thing will search through
them find duplicates and then clean them
out it's pretty fast and also gives you
good control for searching and erasing
them sadly it's not free the $10.00 app
now there's another app called Gemini 2
that's seemingly more popular but it's
20 bucks and I've used them both they
perform like almost identically so if
you're going to choose between them I'd
rather you guys save 10 bucks and get
duplicate finder I actually prefer I
think the icon looks better the other
thing if you're looking for a free
option well I'm sure there's multiple
free options but the one that I've used
with the most success in the past is
something called dupe guru so if you're
looking for a free option there's one
for you ok next up is Daisy disk it's
also $10 what this thing does is analyze
your drive and it shows you what kind of
files are taking up space on your
computer so it's another cleanup tool
and it does a great job at sorting at
your drive into categories of what you
have on there so you can kind of decide
what you want Anouk there are a couple
free alternatives that I've used so
grant perspective is one disk inventory
is another they all kind of do the same
thing Daisy disk is a little bit
prettier a little bit faster but whether
or not worth 10 bucks is up to you ok
next up is airmail yet another Tendo
app there are a lot of really good email
apps for Mac even the stock mail app is
pretty good
I've tried most of the popular ones and
air mail is my favorite it boils down to
customizability
you get full control in this app for how
your mail is handled when it goes in and
out as well as full control of viewing
and sorting your email also I like the
icon I know seems silly but I like a
good icon okay lastly if you're looking
for a Photoshop alternative because
Photoshop is expensive and if you don't
want to pay that like monthly fee the
applet a lot of people get recommended
is something called Pixelmator and it's
a good app that's like 30 bucks but
there's another app that I think is much
better called affinity photo it's $50
quite a bit more expensive but it looks
feels and behaves much more like
Photoshop for photo editing now if you
look for something that's free you can
get it's also a very capable app
for image or photo editing and that's
basically it hope you guys learned a
thing or two if you want to see one of
these videos for Windows applications
give me 50,000 likes let me know in the
comments below I'll do my best to make
one of those as well hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs be liked it
subs if you loved it I'll see you guys
next time